Agent-5-11: adds static networking and dhcp (#52606)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/agent-install-networking.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing-with-agent/installing-with-agent.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="agent-install-networking_{context}"]
= Networking

> During the initial boot, the machines require an IP address configuration that is set either through a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server or statically by providing the required boot options. After a network connection is established, the machines download their Ignition config files from an HTTP or HTTPS server.

Reviewer: This IP address is required for a node to identify as node zero. A node zero node runs the necessary services required for the agent-based installer.

**Preferred way (with agent-config.yaml)**
The IP for node zero can be selected via 3 possible use cases.
1. agent-config.yaml just contains `rendezvousIP` field and no `networkConfig` information under `hosts`. In this case, the value of `rendezvousIP` field is used.
2. agent-config.yaml contains `rendezvousIP` field along with `networkConfig` information under `hosts`. In this case, the value of `rendezvousIP` field is used.
3. agent-config.yaml does not contain `rendezvousIP` field but has the `networkConfig` information under `hosts`. In this case, the IP from the first `interfaces` from the list of `interfaces` under `networkConfig` is used.

When neither `rendezvousIP` nor `networkConfig` is provided in agent-config, then the command to create the image fails with error
 ```
failed to fetch Agent Installer ISO: 
failed to fetch dependency of "Agent Installer ISO": 
failed to generate asset "Agent Installer Ignition": 
missing rendezvousIP in agent-config or at least one NMStateConfig manifest
```

**ZTP**

For the ZTP flow, when nmstateconfig is provided then the first IP from the user-provided NMStateConfigs is set as the node0 IP (a.k.a.) rendezvous IP

.DHCP

* You must specify only the `rendezvousIP` parameter when you use the preferred method of `install-config.yaml` and `agent.config.yaml` files:

+
.Sample agent-config.yaml.file

[source,yaml]
----
  cat > agent-config.yaml << EOF
  kind: AgentConfig
  metadata:
    name: sno-cluster
  rendezvousIP: 192.168.111.80 <1>
----
<1> Required for DHCP.

.Static networking

> * You must specify the `rendezvousIP` and `networkConfig` parameters when you use the preferred method of `install-config.yaml` and `agent.config.yaml` files:

Reviewer: For static networking, `rendezvousIP` is not needed but `networkConfig` is because the agent installer internally generates a low level yaml file i.e. nmstateconfig.yaml based on the `networkConfig` data from agent-config.yaml in this case.

Author: I have removed `rendezvousIP`.

Author: I have re-structured the content based on your first comment

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing-with-agent/installing-with-agent.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="agent-install-networking_{context}"]
= About networking

> During the initial boot, the machines require an IP address configuration that is set either through a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server or statically by providing the required boot options. This IP address is required for a node to be idenitified as ** node 0 **. A ** node 0 ** runs the required services for the Agent-based Installer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During the initial boot, the machines require an IP address configuration that is set either through a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server or statically by choosing below options. If we choose to provide IP using DHCP option then make sure it must be one of the machine IP's which we are going to use for deployment. This IP address is required for a node to be identified as ** node 0 **. A ** node 0 ** runs the required services for the Agent-based Installer.
```

.DHCP

.. Preferred Method: `install-config.yaml` and `agent.config.yaml`

+
You must specify only the value for the `rendezvousIP` field and `networkConfig` field must be left blank:

+
.Sample agent-config.yaml.file

[source,yaml]
----
  cat > agent-config.yaml << EOF

>   kind: AgentConfig

Reviewer 2: Please add `apiVersion` as `apiVersion: v1alpha1`.

  metadata:
    name: sno-cluster
  rendezvousIP: 192.168.111.80
----

.Static networking

.. Preferred Method: `install-config.yaml` and `agent.config.yaml`
+
.Scenario-1

When you specify the value for the `rendezvousIP` and `networkConfig` fields, the `rendezvousIP` field is utilized.

+
.Sample agent-config.yaml.file
+
[source,yaml]
----
  cat > agent-config.yaml << EOF

>   kind: AgentConfig

Reviewer 2: Please add `apiVersion`.

  metadata:
    name: sno-cluster
  rendezvousIP: 192.168.111.80
  hosts:
    - hostname: master-0
      interfaces:
        - name: eno1
          macAddress: 00:ef:44:21:e6:a5
      networkConfig:
        interfaces:
          - name: eno1
            type: ethernet
            state: up
            mac-address: 00:ef:44:21:e6:a5
            ipv4:
              enabled: true
              address:
                - ip: 192.168.111.80
                  prefix-length: 23
----

+
.Scenario-2
When you specify the values for the `networkConfig` field, the value from the `interfaces` field is utilized. This is when there is no `rendezvousIP` field.
+
[source,yaml]
----
  cat > agent-config.yaml << EOF

>   kind: AgentConfig

Reviewer 2: Please add `apiVersion`.

  metadata:
    name: sno-cluster
  hosts:
    - hostname: master-0
      interfaces:
        - name: eno1
          macAddress: 00:ef:44:21:e6:a5
      networkConfig:
        interfaces:
          - name: eno1
            type: ethernet
            state: up
            mac-address: 00:ef:44:21:e6:a5
            ipv4:
              enabled: true
              address:
                - ip: 192.168.111.80
                  prefix-length: 23
----

> 

Reviewer 2: Please add this line `Note that the first IP is utilized for the IP address of ** node 0**.`

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * installing/installing-with-agent/installing-with-agent.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="agent-install-networking_{context}"]
= About networking

During the initial boot, the machines require an IP address configuration that is set either through a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) server or statically by

> selecting the below options. If you provide the IP address for the `rendezvousIP` field through the DHCP option, then ensure that it is for the machine's IP that is going to be used for deployment.

Reviewer: `If you provide the IP address for the `rendezvousIP` field through the DHCP option, then ensure that it is for the machine's IP that is going to be used for deployment.`
Maybe I am thinking too much but the tone of this sentence doesn't look user friendly specifically because of `you` usage.

Reviewer: This looks to be according to the guidelines :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: As discussed we use _you in docs_ and also follow the IBM style guideline for example >>https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/authentication/identity_providers/configuring-request-header-identity-provider.html

  rendezvousIP: 192.168.111.80 <1>
----
<1> The IP address for ** node 0**.

.Static networking

.. Preferred Method: `install-config.yaml` and `agent.config.yaml`
+
.Scenario-1

When you specify the value for the `rendezvousIP` and `networkConfig` fields, the `rendezvousIP` field is utilized.

+
.Sample agent-config.yaml.file
+
[source,yaml]
----
  cat > agent-config.yaml << EOF
  apiVersion: v1alpha1
  kind: AgentConfig
  metadata:
    name: sno-cluster
  rendezvousIP: 192.168.111.80
  hosts:
    - hostname: master-0
      interfaces:
        - name: eno1
          macAddress: 00:ef:44:21:e6:a5
      networkConfig:
        interfaces:
          - name: eno1
            type: ethernet
            state: up
            mac-address: 00:ef:44:21:e6:a5
            ipv4:
              enabled: true
              address:
                - ip: 192.168.111.80
                  prefix-length: 23
----

+
.Scenario-2
When you specify the values for the `networkConfig` field, the value from the `interfaces` field is utilized. This is when there is no `rendezvousIP` field.
+
[source,yaml]
----
  cat > agent-config.yaml << EOF
  apiVersion: v1alpha1
  kind: AgentConfig
  metadata:

>     name: sno-cluster

Reviewer 3: I think Metadata and name are no longer required (they are optional) for agent-config.yaml

  hosts:
    - hostname: master-0
      interfaces:
        - name: eno1
          macAddress: 00:ef:44:21:e6:a5
      networkConfig:
        interfaces:
          - name: eno1
            type: ethernet
            state: up
            mac-address: 00:ef:44:21:e6:a5
            ipv4:
              enabled: true
              address:
                - ip: 192.168.111.80

>                   prefix-length: 23

Reviewer 3: There should be explanation for the values just like in the nmstateconfig.yaml file

----
+

> Note that the first IP is utilized for the IP address of ** node 0**.

Reviewer 3: I think it is the lowest IP

Reviewer 4: I think its a great idea to include this example. It should also include the stanzas for `dns-resolver` and `routes` in the example.

Reviewer 3: @bfournie Added the resolver and routes section

Author: @celebdor I dont understand what you mean by the lowest IP , is it not the first IP value given?

Author: @celebdor  Is Agent-based Installer supporting all the five Modes? ref https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.11/networking/k8s_nmstate/k8s-nmstate-updating-node-network-config.html#virt-example-bond-nncp_k8s_nmstate-updating-node-network-config

Reviewer 3: IPs are integer numbers, so the lowest means the IP that when represented as an integer, has the lowest value

Reviewer 3: Regarding bonding modes, if they work with OpenShift as documented in 4.11, I don't see why they would not work for agent based installation

Author: ok noted

Author: Addressed lowest IP
